the commander of Iran's powerful
revolutionary guard has said there will
be retaliation for an air strike he
blames on Israel that has destroyed
Iran's Consulate in Syria killing 12
people in tan thousands turned out to
attend a funeral for seven members of
the Guard including two senior generals
who were killed in the
blast Marchers chanted death to America
and death to Israel clashes between
Israel and Iran backed Hezbollah along
the Israeli Lebanese border have
increased since the war in again nearly
6 months
ago and that is just part of the story
let's get some more analysis now with
Ali fat NAD he is the director of the
center for Middle East and Global Order
here in Berlin thank you so much for
taking the time to speak with us so
Israel has not commented on this strike
but Iran clearly thinks Israel is behind
it we've seen a supreme leader ayat hame
vowing to punish Israel How likely do
you think an Iranian military response
is
well it is quite obvious that um this
Israeli strike has put the Iranian side
into a dilemma uh first of all it's not
the first heavy blow that uh Israel has
uh imposed upon Iran through targeted
assassinations against high ranking uh
revolutionary guards figures but also
other collaborators uh of Iran for
instance we've had aruri in beut we had
mavi um you know the musavi killing also
the highest ranking in Syria uh you know
highest ranking in revolu guard uh
commander in Syria that was also
targeted um around the turn of the year
so this is uh you know the continuation
of a series of such attacks and this
puts the Iranian side into a dilemma
because first of all it is really
showing Iranian vulnerability here uh
and um on the other hand Iran cannot
really strong
uh you know uh at the same level because
it would then be very careful not to
provoke Israel into an allout War which
would pit Iran against Israel and or the
United States and this such a great War
would pose a danger to regime stability
so it's a dilemma for the Iranian side
so Iran not able to strike at the same
level as you say but do you think we may
see Iran carry out any kind of attacks
and response and if so what would the
most likely targets be
I mean so far we've seen that also in
the context of the Gaza War Iran has
been uh you know using its proxies in
the region to confront Israel it has
refrained from confronting Israel
directly um so this proxy Network you
know the so-called exess of resistance
could be activated uh for such a
retaliation be it uh you know via the
houthis you know against you know
striking Israel from Yemen or via
Hezbollah in Lebanon or via uh Iraqi
militias uh be it in Iraq or in Syria or
else there's also another option to
Target uh Israeli uh you know interests
uh in the region but also Beyond and
perhaps also including Jewish
institutions so there is a whole uh you
know uh whole uh range of possibilities
here for Iran to respond but the main
problem here is that there's now uh you
know this crisis of uh legit the crisis
of of Iran within the context of the
Gaza war is even fortified because Iran
there has been some frustration within
the supporter base of the regime inside
the country but also regionally among
the axis of resistance about Irani
reluctance to attacks by Israel in the
context of the Gaza war against also
Iran so there is a you know there is a
high level of frustration uh about Iran
in
credibility um of being really the you
know the the main supporter of the
Palestinian cause and about Iranian
reluctance to confront Israel directly
so uh this is something that the Iranian
side has to deal with well thank you so
much for sharing your insights that is
Ali fat NAD director of the center for
Middle East and Global Order we very
much appreciate your
time thank
you